[opening theme song playing]
KOTARO LIVES ALONE
Please allow me to introduce all of you
to my dear friend
and neighbor, Sir Karino.
-Uh, nice to meet you all.
-[birds chirping]
[all] Thanks for the invite, Karino!
[Karino] I just had to open
my big, stupid mouth.
[Kotaro] Movies?
[Karino] Yeah. I'm supposed to watch
whatever's popular in theaters
to get some inspiration for my manga.
-Well then, I have no choice.
-[cute music playing]
Fear not.
I shall accompany you
to the movie theaters as your guardian.
[Karino] If you wanna go, just say so.
[Takuya] Nuh-uh! Lucky! I wanna go!
Would it be okay
if our little ones tagged along too?
-[twinkling]
-[kids groaning excitedly]
Uh…
[boy] Are we going
to the Aeyon movie theater?
No. Just the one in the mall.
-This is gonna be the best day ever!
-Aeyon! Aeyon!
I wanna go to the toy store!
-Karino, hurry up! Let's go!
-[kids clamoring]
Calm down. Stop pushing!
Would you get off of me? We're gonna fall!
It's not a joke!
[boys laughing]
[Karino] I'm not gonna make it.
I'm already pooped.
TONOSAMAN THE MOVIE
Oh, oh, oh. Let's see this!
[Karino] Huh?
Dinosaur Hunter 3D?
[boy] I heard things
come flying at your face!
[Takuya] Like poop?
I saw that in a movie once.
Will you be okay
if we don't see this one today?
Matters not to me.
[boy] Karino, can we get popcorn?
[Karino sighs] It's so expensive.
But I don't wanna make Kotaro
look bad in front of his friends.
If I don't buy it,
are they gonna tease him for having
a cheap guardian or something like that?
I know kids can be mean.
[boys chatting indistinctly]
[Karino] Oh, it's fine.
Just buy the damn popcorn.
The snacks are on me!
[boys] Hooray!
All right. One each.
Hmm?
Uh, I'll take three kids' combos, please.
-[boy] This is so cool!
-[dinosaur roaring]
-Hey! [shushing]
-[boys laughing]
Huh? You're making a mess!
Would you stop talking during the movie?
[shushing]
[music from movie playing]
-[indistinct chatter]
-That was awesome!
Karino, can we go to the toy store next?
-Oh yeah!
-Come on!
[Kotaro] I regret that we cannot stay.
The purpose of today's outing
was for Sir Karino
to do research for his work.
No. It's fine. I'll just work later.
Sir Karino!
You must not neglect
your responsibilities.
We are off. Good day.
Huh? W-wait!
[all] Karino, thanks for the movie!
Did you boys have fun?
-[boy] Those dinosaurs were realistic.
-[Takuya] That was fun.
[Karino sighs]
[Karino] That's it.
I am never supervising them again.
[melancholy music playing]
[bird squawking]
What's up?
Why are you so close?
If you got something to say,
then just spit it out!
Hang on.
Are you mad or something?
It would appear that you enjoy
hanging out with my friends
more than with me.
You are supposed to be my guardian!
[Karino] Hmm?
[laughing]
Oh, I am so sorry
for showing your friends a good time.
Do not offer me false apologies!
Cease your laughter at once!
I will not be made fun of!
I'm not making fun.
I think I'm gonna head back to the movies.
You know, for work. You wanna come?
We can watch Tonosaman.
[gasping]
[Kotaro] It would be rude of me
to make you go alone.
Let's away!
[Tonosaman] I will save the day!
I am Tonosaman!
-I will save the day! I am Tonosaman!
-[twinkling]
[Karino] How is this show so boring?
[birds chirping]
[Isamu groaning]
Okay, okay. I promise
I won't pat your head anymore, Kotaro!
Am I to understand,
once again you could not see your son?
[Isamu gasps]
[Isamu chuckling nervously]
[Isamu] Uh, yeah. Not this week.
His mom says he doesn't wanna see me.
He'll come around eventually.
Just gotta give him time.
You may come inside for one glass of milk.
[gasps] Kotaro!
[groaning]
A FEW DAYS LATER
-[Kotaro] May I help you, sir?
-[boy gasps]
Huh?
You got a problem?
-Why don't you mind your own business?
-[whimsical music playing]
Who the heck
do you think you are Mr. Bigshot?
My name is Kotaro Sato,
and I am a resident of these apartments.
Huh? Hey, wait!
Maybe you might know my dad.
Hmm?
'Cause my dad lives
in one of these apartments.
Wait, what? No. This can't…
I don't have a son.
[boy] No.
You're joking, right?
My dad's way more put-together
than this guy.
My apologies. Moving on.
[Kotaro] I did not expect
Sir Tamaru to be your father.
Unfortunately, he is away
on business today.
You are most welcome to wait here for him.
Oh, thanks.
This sure beats waiting out in the cold.
Please forgive my inquiry.
I was lead to believe
you no longer wanted
to have anything to do with your father.
Not true! My mom made that up!
Hey, Kotaro!
I'm back from-- [gasps]
Papa!
Y-Yuta?
You're here?
-Hey there, Pops. It's been a while, huh?
-[cute music playing]
Thought I'd come see what's up.
[Isamu] Y-Yuta, you shouldn't be here.
But I just wanted to see you.
You and Mom are always meeting up
without including me.
I felt left out,
so I decided to come find you.
Mom hides everything in the same spot,
so it wasn't too hard
to find your address
and sneak away without her noticing.
Even Mom can't stop me
from being your son!
[Isamu gasping]
Isn't this wonderful?
You reunited, at last.
Go home, now.
But
why can't I stay?
Don't be absurd, Sir Tamaru?
He's come all this way…
[grunts angrily]
I'm extremely disappointed
in this behavior, Yuta.
You not only lied to your mother,
you showed no regard for my feelings.
You can't go around
doing whatever you want.
But Mom wouldn't tell me
when I can see you next, and--
We're not talking about your mom,
we're talking about you right now.
Yes.
I'll call your mom to get you.
She's probably worried sick.
[somber music playing]
I did my best
to clear the air with your mom.
Listen, whether you like it or not,
you gotta stick to the schedule.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Take care.
[Yuta grunts]
[Isamu] I'm sorry it has to be like this.
Really.
[sniffling, whimpering]
[crying]
[car engine revving]
Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow!
Your son traveled all this way
to see you, Sir Tamaru!
What kind of heartless fiend
would turn him away?
Come on. That hurts.
That's a sensitive area, you know?
You have been pining for days,
professing your desire to see Yuta!
Y-yeah. Of course I wanna see him!
Thing is…
Well, I don't want Yuta to grow up
thinking it's acceptable
to break the rules.
He's better than that.
I hated having to send him away,
but it was the right thing to do.
I see.
In sending him away,
you showed him you loved him.
It isn't always easy
for a dad to show he cares.
I bet it was the same with yours.
Huh? What's that mean?
I'm not condoning the things he did
or the way he treated you.
That was wrong. No question.
But I'd like to believe,
deep down, he really did love you.
After all… [crying]
…how could a father not adore his own son?
[Isamu sobbing]
[Kotaro] Have heart, Sir Tamaru.
You did well
to hold back these tears in front of Yuta.
I commend you for that.
[Isamu] Kotaro!
[doorbell rings]
Yeah? What do you nee--
Hey. I'm Takei Sumire.
I just moved into apartment 201.
It's nice to meet you. Here.
Oh, thanks.
My name's Shin Karino.
Guess one hottie moves out
and another moves in.
Except this one's giving off
some serious power-suit vibes.
Which explains…
Don't tell me
you never separate your recycling.
That's, like, adulting 101, guys.
[groaning] Lay off, would you?
[Karino] Maybe less "power-suit,"
more "nagging mom."
[Kotaro] Good morrow.
-Oh. Hey. Good morning, Kotaro.
-Hey.
Can you not work and talk
at the same time?
[Isamu groaning]
[Takei] Good morning, Kotaro.
Good morning to you, Lady Takei.
It's nice to see someone around here
knows how to properly separate
their recycling.
You could teach these guys a thing or two.
Oh, that's so sweet.
That little girl's helping walk the dog.
And this little guy
jogging to stay healthy.
They're setting great examples for us.
[Karino] Well, she has plenty
of nice things to say to the kids.
Whoa. What the…
[chuckling nervously]
[Karino] Why is she sweating so much?
She is trying way too hard to please them.
Wait a minute.
What did she say when we met?
Are there any children
living in this building?
Yeah. There is one kid here,
but he lives alone,
so we all take turns helping him.
You okay?
Yeah. I'm super! Just thinking
about helping my new neighbor.
I… I'm here to help!
[Karino] It's pretty obvious
she isn't comfortable around kids.
I figured Kotaro would pick up on that.
Why is he chasing her around?
-[Takei chuckling nervously]
-[twinkling]
-You wanna play tag? All right!
-[whimsical music playing]
[Karino] He looks
like he's having fun, though.
Wonder why he's trying so hard
to get her to play with him.
Hey. I hate to ask,
but is there any chance you could possibly
pick up Kotaro from school today?
I gotta meet with my editor,
and Isamu's not around either
I wouldn't ask, but I'm kind of in a bind.
[groaning nervously]
[Karino] Yeah. Look.
You know, maybe I can find someone else.
No. That's nonsense. I don't mind.
I'm happy to help!
It's the neighborly thing to do.
What? She picked you up
from school in a taxi?
[Kotaro] Aye. It was only a short trip,
but Takei, the driver,
and myself had a lovely conversation.
Though, I do wish Lady Takei
would be less nervous around me.
[Karino] Hey.
Sorry for the last-minute request.
[Takei] It was no big deal, really.
I didn't have any plans today anyway.
Like I told you,
I'm happy to help him out
as long as I have the time.
[Karino] Okay. Uh, I just…
You're not into kids, are you?
How did you know? Uh…
I don't dislike them.
[Karino] Who does she think she's kidding?
[crickets chirping]
You know, Kotaro is pretty observant.
-[gasping]
-[Karino] I'm sure he knows.
All I'm saying
is you don't need to fake it.
Just be yourself.
If you don't like kids,
you don't like kids.
There's nothing you can do about it.
It's just that easy for men, isn't it?
Huh?
[Takei] You have no idea what it's like
to be a woman who's not good around kids.
The stares, the whispers.
What kind of woman
is uncomfortable around kids?
It's not my fault, and I didn't choose
to be this way, you know?
[crying] I'm working so hard
to fix myself.
Don't tell me there's nothing…
[crying]
…I can do!
[Karino] I didn't realize
she was struggling with that so much.
But…
-[Takei chuckling nervously]
-[twinkling]
Can't catch me! I love tag!
[Takei chuckling nervously]
[Karino] Come on.
He's gotta know
Takei's not great with kids.
So why does he keep chasing her?
[Kotaro] There was a time when my parents
did not know how to act around me.
They worked hard
to overcome their uncertainty.
It can be done,
and I shall help you do it.
I know that you're trying hard
to get along with me,
so I will help you overcome your fear.
[Takei gasps]
[Karino gasps]
[chuckling lightly]
[Karino] I should've known.
That kid is always thinking
five steps ahead of us.
[soft music playing]
[Karino] Then again,
maybe he's just messing with her.
[Takei laughing]
[birds chirping]
-[footsteps approaching]
-[bags rustling]
[Takei] Something… [sighs]
Something's off!
Hey. How are you doing
this morning, Takei?
Is it just me, or is there something
seriously different about Kotaro today?
[Karino] Ah, you noticed too, huh?
Hey, kid.
You've been putting on some weight, huh?
[Takei] He did not!
'Tis true
I have become quite round as of late.
However, it is important for a growing boy
to eat three square meals a day.
Oh, and before you jump to conclusions,
may I remind you
that I do not eat tissues anymore.
Yeah. I know that!
-[Takei] Tissues?
-[whimsical music playing]
-[Kotaro gasps]
-[Takei gasps]
Lady Takei! 'Tis time to train!
-We shall conquer your child phobia!
-[Takei panting]
[breathing heavily]
[Karino] So how'd that go?
I'm getting faster.
But a more important question,
he was eating tissues?
Uh…
You see, before he moved in here,
Kotaro didn't exactly have
the best family life.
He had to eat tissues to survive.
[Takei gasps]
That's terrible. I had no idea.
Well, you know, binge eating
could explain the weight gain.
Could that be it?
Well, he wasn't binge eating before.
It's gotta be something more recent.
Hey. What is that? A kids menu?
Oh, yeah.
It's the daily school-lunch menu
from the kindergarten.
There's a PTA meeting to discuss it.
You think maybe I could go?
I've taught myself a lot about nutrition.
What? But there's…
[Takei] I'm going, and that's that!
[indistinct chatter]
[Takei] I'm surrounded by kindergartners!
I did not think this through!
Ms. Tohko, how is everything?
Any problems with the nutrition program?
No. Everything's been great.
That's good to hear.
We wanna make sure
these kids are eating healthy snacks,
not all that junk.
Kids eat
way too much processed sugar these days.
-[woman] It's terrible.
-[Takei sighs]
[children] Thank you for the food!
[kids chatting indistinctly]
My dear lady,
is the food not to your liking?
It's not the food.
Hmm.
This appears to be a well-balanced meal.
I can't imagine
this is the cause of his weight gain.
Hey, Kotaro!
You'll eat my leftovers
again today, right?
Verily I will.
You want mine too?
Kotaro, don't forget about mine!
Oh, don't force him to eat it!
He may not want seconds.
Kotaro always eats our leftovers.
He loves it.
-Time for dodgeball!
-[kids giggling]
Let's go! Let's go!
[children clamoring, laughing]
Good thing you're not picky… [laughs]
…or it would go to waste.
That's right. You've got a great appetite.
[somber music playing]
[Takei] Hey. Are you even hungry still?
Not really,
but I cannot stop
whenever food is put in front of me.
I would hate for it to go to waste.
[all gasping]
[crying]
I think I get it.
You know, more than anyone,
that a daily meal isn't always guaranteed.
Kotaro!
[panting] I'm here, at last.
Goodness. I had no idea.
I just assumed Kotaro
had a healthy appetite.
It didn't occur to me that it
was something more serious than that.
I'll do my best
to make sure this doesn't happen again.
It's pretty smart having the parents
and students eat lunch together.
Gives you a great perspective
of what's going on with them.
We try to arrange it as often as possible.
You should join us for the next lunch.
Me? Oh, uh…
[Takei sighs]
-[boys] Time to play dodgeball!
-[Takei] I think I'd like that very much.
I have a better idea.
-[footsteps rapidly approaching]
-Huh?
This game is entitled "Chase Lady Takei!"
-Come on, everyone! Follow me!
-[children clamoring]
What?
[Takei screaming]
[Takei] I knew this was a bad idea!
[clattering]
COLLECTION/GOOD DAY FOR SOCCER
An intriguing-looking rock.
Surely you would agree, Sir Karino.
[Karino] Yeah. It looks like a rock.
[Kotaro] I shall take it home
and add it to my extensive collection.
[Karino] Collection of what?
Of all the unusual
and beautiful things I found!
Occasionally I display all of my treasures
and admire them at my leisure
while sipping cold milk.
Do you ever think about
trying to act like a normal kid?
I mean, I think it would do you some good.
-It's genius!
-Huh?
[Karino] "One ticket
to the Museum of Treasures."
I take it you all got one of these
in your mailbox today too?
Kotaro actually invited me!
It's gonna be fun, isn't it?
-[door opens]
-[all] Huh?
Salutations, my friends,
and welcome to my museum.
Right this way, ladies and gentlemen!
[Isamu] Wow, this is amazing, Kotaro!
It looks like a real museum.
So where do we begin?
Anyway, enjoy yourselves
to your heart's content.
[Karino] Wait. These are his treasures?
That's the picture
I gave him from the park.
And these are the Band-aids I doddled on.
I can't believe that one of your treasures
is the shopping bag from our trip
we took to the mall together.
Oh.
So these are all things
Kotaro has collected over the years.
Oh, so cute!
[Takei] Hey, Kotaro. What are those?
These gloves
are the only thing my mother left behind.
She wore them any time
she had to give me a bath or feed me.
[Takei gasping]
[Karino and Isamu gasping]
What's he talking about?
[Takei] Kotaro, I think you need
to throw them away.
[Kotaro] Hmm?
Hey, Takei?
[Kotaro] I will not.
[Takei] Those are not treasures.
You need to throw them away.
-That's not your call.
-Don't make such a big deal out of it.
[Takei] Fine. If you can't
do it yourself, I'll do it for you.
Give them to me, now!
-I need them in case--
-[Takei] I said throw them away!
[Kotaro gasping]
Back off! Leave him be!
Hey, Isamu. Calm down.
They're garbage! Throw them out!
[man] Why do you always wear those gloves
when you get her dressed?
[woman] I don't like touching her.
[crying] I can't help it.
I know it sounds bad,
but I can't stand to look at her.
And touching her
makes me sick to my stomach.
-[somber music playing]
-[Takei sighs]
[Kotaro] Apologies, Lady Takei.
My mother needed these gloves
in order to wash my hair
and get me dressed each day.
It is because of these gloves
that my mother could touch me at all.
And you still love her after all that?
[Kotaro] Of course.
That is why I cannot throw them away.
Growing up with a mother who will
only touch you while wearing gloves
is something I understand all too well.
If it were me,
I wouldn't wanna hold on
to a memory like that one.
That's you, though.
For him, maybe even a painful memory
is better than forgetting her altogether
because that's all he has left of his mom.
[Takei sighs]
Yeah. Maybe you're right.
But it doesn't make it less sad.
[Kotaro] I promise I will always
have these gloves waiting for you
whenever you come back home.
-[indistinct chatter]
-[boy laughing]
You had best be ready for this, Sir Hide.
I am now prepared to pass the ball!
Just kick it already, kid!
[Kotaro] Very well.
[Kotaro grunting]
[sighing angrily]
I faked you out.
Since when do you fake out
your own teammates?
[Kotaro] Hmm.
[Karino] You joined a kids' soccer club?
Indeed.
Playing soccer
is an excellent form of exercise,
and the team will consist of kids from
both kindergarten and elementary school.
When did this happen?
Do you even know how to play soccer?
I am skilled at fake outs.
[cute music playing]
[boy grunting]
Just bounce it off your knee. Got it?
Aye. Ready?
[grunts] What's the matter with you?
It was not at all what I intended.
Well, it still hurt!
-Hey! Come on!
-[groans]
[coach] Pack it up and head home!
My apologies, Sir Coach! We shall depart!
Sir Hide, thank you
for instructing me today.
Is everything all right?
I'm okay.
It's nothing.
Kotaro, you should go home now.
Aye.
[bell chiming]
[children] Thank you for today!
Ugh, I'm so nervous.
How come you never look nervous?
There's nothing to be nervous about.
We've got this.
Just play like you always do.
Exactly. Just play the way we always do.
Not you! You need to play better!
-[Hide grunting]
-[whistle blowing]
Yeah! Nice shot!
[both chuckling]
[Kotaro] I hope my actions
were able to assist your shot.
What are you talking about, Kotaro?
All you were doing
was running away from the ball.
Precisely as you instructed.
I didn't mean for you
to just randomly run around the--
-[coach] Defense!
-[Hide gasps]
You think the other team's
gonna wait for you?
Get back in position!
Ugh. The other team's coach
is a real drill sergeant.
Uh, Sir Hide, where should I run to next?
[Kotaro gasps]
-[ominous music playing]
-Sir Hide?
[Hide grunting, panting]
-Hey! Move it!
-[Hide gasping]
I've seen snails run faster than you!
[Hide's breath shuddering]
Hide! Why don't you ever listen to me
when I talk to you?
Hey! What's wrong with you?
Why is it so hard to do what you're told?
What are you teaching him, huh?
You're with him all day!
You need to teach him some manners!
[woman] You always blame me!
Why don't you try parenting for a change
instead of watching TV all night?
[Hide's breath shuddering]
[Hide gasps]
I had a friend who did this.
It always helped calm me down
whenever the bad memories came back.
This will pass.
No one on this field is upset with you.
-[children shouting indistinctly]
-[whistle blowing]
Hey! Get off me!
I do not need your help!
[Kotaro] Huh?
[Hide grunts angrily]
Stop following me! I'm trying to play!
Stop being shy!
I'm not!
[boy] Hide!
[lively music playing]
[Hide grunting, yelling]
[Kotaro grunting]
[whistle blowing]
'Twas a rather good shot.
Uh, mm-hmm.
Yeah. Really good shot.
[music fades]
[ending theme music playing]